Cellular Automata Territory Aquisition

C.A.T.A. (Cata) is a game where two players compete to dominate the game board with their 
color, and reduce their oponents score faster than their own.

Cata uses a binary, 2d cellular automata engine to calculate the results of each move.


Windows

There are three windows required to play. The game board, the rule board, and score window.

Game Board
The game board is the largest board. 
Upon start it will be divided into four equal size squares. 
Two white and two black. While running any changes to the ca rule will be applied 
	to the game board. 

Rule Board
The rule board is the smallest window. 
Upon start it is divided into two collections of 16 squares.
The top 16 refer to player 1s rule positions and the bottom 16 player 2.
Each square maps to a single position in the ca rule. Black = 0, White = 1.
	The binary conversion of the rule position represents the ca neighborhood.
	The value order is Center, Up, Right, Down, Left (C,U,R,D,L). 
		Decimal	Binary
		Cell		C,U,R,D,L
			U		
		    L C R
			D
		1           0,0,0,0,1
			0
		    1 0 0
			0
		17          1,0,0,0,1
			0
		    1 1 0
			0	
Clicking on a square will change its color to its counter. Black click White. White click Black

Score Window
The score window is a completely black text based window that is passive in nature. 
The status of the game (paused or not) and scores will be displayed. 


Controls

Escape
Closes game window. 
Only works from the game and rule boards.

Tab
Pauses or unpauses the game. 
Changes to the ca rule will not affect the game board while it is paused.
Once a game is unpaused the current score will be displayed.

Enter/Return
Resets the game board to its original position.

Click
Cycles a rule board position and affects the ca rule.


Gameplay

Turn
Each turn has two phases action and reaction.
-Action phase
	A turns action phase begins when the game is paused.
	Each player gets two moves per turn.
		A move can be a strike, block or meditate.
		A strike is when a player changes a tile on their opponents side of the board to their color.
		A block is when a player changes one of their tiles to their color.
			Players may only defend one tile per turn.
		A meditation is when a player who's is currently losing opts to reset the board at the begining of a reaction phase.
			This counts as a move and limits them to a single strike/block move during the action phase.
		On the first turn each player must strike with their two moves. 
	p2 goes first becasue they start with a point disadvantage.
-Reaction phase
	A turns reaction phase begins when the game is unpaused. 
	Upon unpause the current score for each player will be displayed indicating the initiation of the phase.
	If the game board resolves to a static state the next turn may begin. 
	If the game board finds an infinite loop or generates a pattern that will take longer than a minute to settle
		the losing player is given the ability to pause the game in a favorable board state.
	If a player has opted to meditate during the action phase and they change their mind, 
		their opponent gains an extra move in the next turn.

Scores
Each player starts with 64 health points. 
1 health point is equivilent to a quarter of the game board filled with an opponnets color.
At the begining of each reaction phase the number of black and white pixels are tallied.
The tallies are scaled down to the health points and deducted from each players health.
If a players score is equal to 48 or 16 the game board is reset. 
If a players score is equal to 32 the game board and rule board are reset. 
These will be expressed in the score window aswell.
A player wins when their opponents score reaches 0

